Global variables vs. Session Variables
Dynamic vs. Static Variables


Replication
	Asynchronous
	Master/Slave
	Slave can have multiple masters
		(Slave can be slave to Accounting and Inventory,
			but not Accounting Master A and Master B)

Binlog format
	Statement - if it might modify the data/structure, 
		send SQL statement to slaves
		Deterministic or non-deterministic problem
			sysdate(), rand(), etc
	Row - data diffs, 
		usually less efficient particularly for queries
			that modify a lot of records at once
		may be more efficient when a lot of operations
			modify a small number of rows
		Doesn't care about deterministic/non-deterministic
	Mixed - best of both, but may be wrong if deterministic
		/non-deterministic info is inaccurate
		set a = sysdate();
		insert into Customer values (..., @a, ...);

	Change binlog format on a session basis
	Can't change it inside a stored program (function/proc)
		(AFAIK, hopefully will change soon 
			but technical hurdles exist)



Exercise: 

Install a larger data set
	weasleydb mysqldump (~3Mb, ~50k records)

wget http://nextgeneducation.com/cvs/xmardba/data/weasleydb.mysql.dump
mysql -u calvin -p
	drop database weasley
	create database weasleydb
	use weasleydb
	source weasleydb.mysql.dump
	show tables
	select * from Customer

Clone the MariaVM (VirtualBox cloning)
	Fix the mysql /etc/init.d script
		Kludge for now
	Shutdown the Linux VM (controlled graceful shutdown)
	shutdown -h now
	In VirtualBox settings, make sure:
		Network Adapter 1 (eth0 in Linux) is Attached To "Bridged Adapter
		Network Adapter 2 (eth1 in Linux) is Attached To "intnet"
		CPU # cores is small (1 or 2 - 
		  total for all VMs running has to be 
		  less than twice the real # of cores/hyper threads)

	Now Right-click on VM in VirtualBox Manager and "Clone"
	Call the clone "MariaDB Slave 1", Re-initialize MAC addresses
	On the next screen, select "Full Clone"
	Open the settings of "MariaDB Slave 1", copy the new MAC address for Adapater 1 to notepad

		On my Slave, the new MAC is: 080027776A22


Launch the original VM, configure as a master
	Re-launch MariaDB VM
	Stop there!
	Take a break until 12:05
	We'll configure as a master when we come back.

Launch the copy, configure as a slave

Verify replication is working 
	1. they can see each other
	2. Modify the data on the master (insert/update/delete)
	3. Verify data on the slave

Verify replication survives failure
	1. Shut down slave
	2. Modify data on master
	3. Restart slave
	4. Verify data on slave










